Let's look at how linear models
are also used for classification,
starting with binary classification.
This approach to prediction uses the same
linear functional form as we saw for
regression.
But instead of predicting a continuous
target value, we take the output of
the linear function and apply the sine
function to produce a binary output
with two possible values, corresponding
to the two possible class labels.
If the target value is greater than zero,
the function returns plus one and
if it's less than zero,
the function returns minus one.
Here's a specific example.
So let's take a look at a simple
linear classification problem,
a binary problem that has
two different classes, and
where each data instance is represented
by two informative features.
So we're going to call these features x1
on the x-axis and x2 on the y-axis.
Now, how do we get from
taking a data instance that's
described by a particular combination
of x1, x2 to a class prediction.
Well in a linear classifier,
what we do is we take the feature values
assigned to a particular data point.
So in this case,
it might be 2.1,0.
So that represents the x1 and x2 feature
values for this particular instance,
let's say, and so
that corresponds to the input here.
And then we take those two x1,
x2 values and
put them through a linear function f here.
And the output of this f
needs to be a class value.
So either we want it to return +1,
if it's in one class and
-1 if it's in the other class.
So the linear classifier does that by
computing a linear function of x1,
x2 that's represented by this
part of the equation here.
So this w is a vector of weights.
This x represents the vector
of feature values.
And then b is a bias
term that gets added in.
So this is a dot product,
this circle here is a dot product.
Which means that, let's say,
the simple case where we had (w1, w2),
and a future vector of (x1, x2).
The dot product of those
is simply the linear
combination of w1 x1 + w2 x2.
We take the X values, and we have
certain weights that are learned for
the classifier.
So we compute w1 x1 + w2 x2.
Then we feed that, and
then plus a bias term, if there is one.
And we feed the output of that
through the sign function that
converts the value in here.
If it's above 0, it'll convert to +1,
and if it's below 0,
it'll convert it to -1 and
that's what the equation represents here.
So that is the very simple
rule that we use to convert
a data instance with its input
features to an output prediction.
Okay, let's take a look using
a specific linear function to see
how this works in practice.
So what I've done here is
drawn a straight line through
the space that is defined
by the equation x1- x2 = 0.
In other words, every point on
this line satisfies this equation.
So you can see, for
example, that x1 = -1 and
x2 = -1 and
if you subtract them you get 0.
Essentially, it's just the line that
represents all the points where x1 and
x2 are equal.
So this corresponds to, so we can rewrite
this x1- x2 = 0 into
a form that uses a dot
product of weights with
the input vector x.
So in order to get x1-
x2 = 0 that's equivalent
writing a linear function where
you have a weight vector of 1 and
-1 and a bias term of 0 So
for example, so
if we have weights (w1,
w2) dot (x1, x2).
We call that this is just the same
as computing w1 x1 + w2 x2.
And so in this case, if w is 1 and -1,
that's equivalent to x1- x2.
So all I've done here then is
just convert the description
of this line into a form that can be
used as a decision rule for classifier.
So I might have to look
at a specific point.
So suppose that we wanted
to classify the point here
that had coordinates -0.75 and -2.25.
So this point right here.
So all we would do to have
a classifier make a decision with
this decision boundary would be
to plug in those coordinates
into this part of the function,
apply the weights and
the bias term that describe
the decision boundary.
So here we're computing.
So this expression here corresponds
to this part of the equation.
And so, if we compute w1 times
x1 + w2 times x2 plus 0,
we get a value of 0.15 that's
inside the sign function.
And then the sign function will output
1 if this value is greater than zero,
which it is or minus 1,
if the value is less than zero.
So in this case,
because it's greater than zero,
the output from the decision
function would be plus 1.
So this has classified this
point as being class one.
If we look at a different point,
let's take a look at the point -1.75 and
-0.25.
So again, we're just going to up, so
this is corresponding to
the value of x1 and x2.
And again,
if we just take these values and
plug them into this part of the equation.
Apply the weights and
the bias term that describe the decision
boundary as you did before.
We do this computation,
we find out that, in fact,
classifier predicts a class of -1 here.
So you see that by applying
a simple linear formula,
we've been able to
produce a class value for
any point in this two
dimensional features space.
So one way to define a good classifier
is to reward classifiers for
the amount of separation that can
provide between the two classes.
And to do this, we need define
the concept of classifier margin.
So informally, for
our given classifier, The margin is
the width that the decision boundary can
be increased before hitting a data point.
So what we do is we take the decision
boundary, and we grow a region around it.
Sort of in this perpendicular to the line
in this direction and that direction, and
we grow this width until
we hit a data point.
So in this case,
we were only able to grow the margin
a small amount here,
before hitting this data point.
So this width here between
the decision boundary and
nearest data point represents the margin
of this particular classifier.
Now you can imagine that for
every classifier that we tried,
we can do the same calculation or
simulation to find the margin.
And so among all possible classifiers
that separate these two classes then,
we can define the best classifier as
the classifier that has the maximum
amount of margin which corresponds
to the one shown here.
So you recall that the original classifier
on the previous slide had a very small
margin.
This one manages to achieve
a must larger margin.
So again, the margin is the distance
the width that we can go from
the decision boundary perpendicular
to the nearest data point.
So you can see that by defining
this concept of margin that sort of
quantifies the degree to which
the classifier can split the classes
into two regions that have some
amount of separation between them.
We can actually do a search for the
classifier that has the maximum margin.
This maximum margin classifier is called
the Linear Support Vector Machine,
also known as an LSVM or a support
vector machine with linear kernel.
Now we'll explain more about what
the concept of a kernel is and how you can
define nonlinear kernels as well as
kernels, and why you'd want to do that.
We'll cover those shortly in
a continuation of our support
vector machine lecture later
in this particular week.
Here's an example in the notebook on how
to use the default linear support vector
classifier in scikit-learn, which is
defined in the sklearn SVM library.
The linear SVC class implements
a linear support vector classifier and
is trained in the same
way as other classifiers,
namely by using the fit
method on the training data.
Now in the simple classification
problem I just showed you,
the two classes were perfectly
separable with a linear classifier.
In practice though, we typically have
noise or just more complexity in the data
set that makes a perfect linear
separation impossible, but
where most points can be separated
without errors by linear classifier.
And our simple binary classification
dataset here is an illustration of that.
So how tolerant the support vector machine
is of misclassifying training points,
as compared to its objective of
minimizing the margin between classes
is controlled by a regularization
parameter called C which by default
is set to 1.0 as we have here.
Larger values of C represent
less regularization and
will cause the model to fit the training
set with these few errors as possible,
even if it means using a small
immersion decision boundary.
Very small values of C on the other
hand use more regularization that
encourages the classifier to find
a large marge on decision boundary,
even if that decision boundary leads
to more points being misclassified.
Here's an example in the notebook showing
the effect of varying C on this basic
classification problem.
On the right, when C is large,
the decision boundary is adjusted so
that more of the black training
points are correctly classified.
While on the left, for small values of C,
the classifier is more tolerant of
these errors in favor of capturing
the majority of data points
correctly with a larger margin.
Finally, here's an example of applying
the Linear Support Vector Machine
to a real world data set,
the breast cancer classification problem.
And here, we can see that it
achieves reasonable accuracy without
much parameter tuning.
On the positive side, linear models,
in the case of linear and
logistic regression,
are simple and easy to train.
And for all types of linear models,
prediction's very fast because,
of the linear nature of
the prediction function.
Linear models including Linear
Support Vector Machines also perform
effectively on high dementional data set,
especially,
in cases where the data
instances are sparse.
Linear Models scale well to
very large datasets as well.
In the case of
Linear Support Vector Machines,
they only use a subset of training
points and decision function.
These training points
are called support vectors.
So the algorithm can be implemented
in a memory efficient way.